Revised PPA page in 'feature highlights' of the usr docs (#549)
canonical/launchpad-manual: docs/user/explanation/feature-highlights/personal-package-archives.rst

   world to see.
4. Give your PPA's public archive URL to friends.

Managing PPAs
-------------

To install a PPA, you can add it to your apt sources:

> ``add-apt-repository ppa:user/ppa-name``

Reviewer: I think the procedure is we add a PPA to the apt sources then install packages from the PPA. I don't think we install the PPA itself. Ref: https://ubuntu.com/docs/launchpad/user/how-to/packaging/ppa-install/

Author: yeah you're right, I think I messed up the wording here

Make sure to update your apt packages before installing:

> ``apt update``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your apt sources and install the desired package from the PPA:
``apt update && apt install <package-name>``
```

Author: Good change, implemented.

Removing a PPA can be done with: 
``add-apt-repository --remove ppa:user/ppa-name``

Supported Ubuntu Versions
-------------------------

> You can build your package against any currently supported version of Ubuntu, including active Long Term Support (LTS) releases and active interim releases. Launchpad automatically manages the build environments for these active targets.

Reviewer 2: We have a line length 80, though it seems this is not defined in the contributing docs @odadacharles

Reviewer: Is it 80 or 79?

Reviewer 2: As long as we have not written it down, you can decide :)

I would favor 80.

Reviewer: We've been working with 79 because it was written down somewhere once. We can update the guidance to 80 so we're dealing with a nice even number.

> You can build your package against any currently supported version of Ubuntu, including active Long Term Support (LTS) releases and active interim releases. Launchpad automatically manages the build environments for these active targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build your package against any currently supported version of Ubuntu, including active Long Term Support (LTS) releases and active interim releases. Launchpad automatically manages the build environments for these targets.
```

Author: Small change, good catch.

> For example, this includes target distributions such as Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble), and Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute), as well as current interim versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this currently includes LTS releases such as Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble), and Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute), as well as interim versions like Ubuntu 25.10 (Quokka).
```

Author: Good change, fixed.

When you upload your source package, you specify the exact target distribution codename in your Debian changelog file to dictate which version it will be built for.

> Note: While older releases transitioning into Expanded Security Maintenance (ESM) may still exist in corporate environments, Launchpad building capabilities generally mirror the actively maintained distribution cycles.

Reviewer: I think we can drop this part because this is a feature highlights doc. We don't need to start addressing the exceptions at this point.

Author: yeah, good point.

   world to see.
4. Give your PPA's public archive URL to friends.

Managing PPAs
-------------

> To install packages from a PPA, you can add the PPA it to your apt sources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install packages from a PPA, add the PPA to your apt sources:
```

Author: better wording, implemented.

``add-apt-repository ppa:user/ppa-name``

> Update your apt sources and install the desired package from the PPA:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the apt sources index and install the desired package from the PPA:
```
Not sure if it's the sources list or index. Please verify before changing

Author: "package index" seems to be the correct term https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/how-to/software/package-management/

``apt update && apt install <package-name>``

> Removing a PPA can be done with: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove a PPA: 
```

Author: More consistent with the rest of the wording, implemented.

``add-apt-repository --remove ppa:user/ppa-name``

Supported Ubuntu Versions
-------------------------
You can build your package against any currently supported version of
Ubuntu, including active Long Term Support (LTS) releases and active 
interim releases. Launchpad automatically manages the build 
environments for these  targets.

For example, this currently includes LTS releases such as
Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble), and Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute),

> as well as interim versions like Ubuntu (Quokka 25.10).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as interim versions like Ubuntu 25.10 (Quokka).
```

Author: good catch.

Activating your PPA
-------------------

On your Launchpad profile page, look for an option to "Activate Personal Package
Archive". You will need to accept the terms of service, which basically
say that you will only use the free PPA system for free software

> packages. At this point you can start uploading your source packages

Reviewer 2: This also should be aligned to 80 characters.

Author: Yes, will align the entire file to 80 characters.

> immediately. Package builds can be actively monitored from the **Builds** page found in your PPA's Launchpad page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
immediately. Package builds can be actively monitored from the PPA's **Builds** page on Launchpad.
```

Author: fixed.

Activating your PPA
-------------------

On your Launchpad profile page, look for an option to "Activate Personal 
Package Archive". You will need to accept the terms of service, which
basically say that you will only use the free PPA system
for free software packages. At this point you can start uploading
your source packages immediately. Package builds can be actively 

> monitored from the PPA's **Builds** page found on Launchpad.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
monitored from the PPA's **Builds** page on Launchpad.
```

Author: Implemented.
